Project two required the introduction of JavaScript along with HTML and CSS to create an interactive webpage. By using the knowledge from the last project designing a website now had an extra step to it by adding JavaScript, my original idea for this project was to create a game with in the website. I first had to plan how to create game by using videos on YouTube to give me some sort of guidelines whilst working on the project, so that I could get the general gist of how I wanted to structure the games code.

The project was first intended to be a "rock, paper, scissor, lizard, Spock". I was every confident at first going into the project however it did take up a lot of time debugging after multiple issues kept arsing which rendered the projected unusable. I was unable to trigger an event in the when the button was click it would start the game, the rules followed the same principle that the original 'rock, paper, scissor' follows however with a couple extra steps, a score was to be kept till the winner reached "5 points" then the option to reset the game would be available. Due to the issues that that was found I had to start over again.

The second try at the project was a far simpler game, a coin toss game the reason why I went through with this idea is that it follows a very similar construct with the idea that when a button is clicked it triggers an event to begin the game however for this instant it's a coin toss of "heads" and "tails" instead of "rock, paper, scissor,(etc)". I set it to an alert to pop up letting the player know what side the coin has laned on, along with this depending on what side was pick the alert will let the player know if they won for picking the right side or if they had lost if the coin had not landed on the chosen side.

Issues that came up during the project, getting the CSS to looking good and fitting for the webpage by making sure the buttons and the text were in line and in the centre of the page however I came across a reoccurring problem that when I change the style of the webpage it would disable the JavaScript from actioning and nothing would work. Along with this making sure the spacing was correct and not squashed together or off centre, however I was finding difficulty in making everything fit and to not look scrappy.


The colours that I used were white and black, however at first i did want to use red and black but the layout stated to look untidy and not good on the eyes. Black and white felt and looked better when first opening the webpage, although it is simple it still delivers what is needed to be seen as eye catching.  I feel as if I could of went with more colour and style to make the project stand out more by increasing the font size, using different contrasting colours to give it a better feel.

What I could have worked on more in this project is, possibly adding an animation of a coin being flipped and visually showing the player what side they laned on, to do this I would first create coin using CSS and then look into how I could starting making it move using sources such as You Tube, Slack or over stack. To also select a different range of colours to avoid looking bland and stale but more exciting and entertaining, to achieve this I would have to take bigger risks and experiment more with the colour wheel and shader, manually learning what workers better with each other.

In conclusion, throughout project two I had faced many difficulties that had made me change the direction of how I wanted to handle the project, however I have learnt a lot during this time especially my understanding when it comes to working with JavaScript.
